JUDY WOODRUFF: But first: to
a part of the Trump agenda
that the administration still
has not been able to implement:
his travel ban on visitors from
six mostly Muslim countries.
The revised version of the
ban remains on hold by federal
court order, and the president
this morning aired out
his grievances once again.
John Yang reports.
JOHN YANG: This afternoon,
the White House deputy press
secretary said it didn't matter
what President Trump's executive
order on immigration is called.
SARAH HUCKABEE SANDERS, Deputy
White House Press Secretary:
I think that the president
isn't concerned with
what you call it.
He's concerned with national
security and protecting
people in this country.
JOHN YANG: This morning, the
president was very concerned,
stating: "People, the lawyers
and the courts can call it
whatever they want, but I am
calling it what we need and what
it is, a travel ban."
In fact, it his own aides
who refused to call it that.
SEAN SPICER, White
House Press Secretary:
It's not a travel ban.
It's a -- it's a vetting
system to keep America safe.
That's it, plain and simple.
JOHN KELLY, U.S. Homeland
Security Secretary: It's
not a travel ban, remember.
It's a travel pause.
What the president said, for
90 days, we were going to pause
in terms of people from those
countries coming to the United
States that would give me time
to look at additional vetting.
JOHN YANG: Mr. Trump
also slammed his own
Justice Department,
saying it should have
stuck with the original
executive order, "not
the watered-down,
politically correct current
version," even though it was the
president himself who revoked
the original version when
he signed the new one.
Mr. Trump has asked the
Justice Department to
seek a quick Supreme
Court hearing to reinstate
the order after lower courts
blocked it from taking effect.
It's up to the
justices to decide how
quickly they will act.
For the "PBS NewsHour,"
I'm John Yang.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Separately,
there's word tonight
that the FBI has arrested
a federal contract
employee on charges of
leaking a secret document
on Russian election hacking.
NBC News reports that a
Georgia woman allegedly
gave the National
Security Agency document
to "The Intercept,"
an online magazine.
It says it shows Russian
military intelligence
engineered a cyber-attack
on at least one
U.S. supplier of voting
software last year.
Hackers also tried to dupe
elections officials into
handing over log-in credentials.
It's the first evidence
that Moscow tried to go
beyond swaying public
opinion and interfere
in election machinery.
For more on all this and more,
we turn to Politics Monday
with Amy Walter of The Cook
Political Report and
Tamara Keith of NPR.
So, Amy and Tam, this is a story
that has just been breaking
literally within the last
hour.
We learned about this online
magazine, Amy, a few hours ago,
but now we're learning about
the arrest.
If it is the case that
the Russians were able to
in some way interfere or
get close to interfering
with the machinery of an
election, what does that mean?
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: Well, that's just one
more piece of what has been
this never-ending puzzle
called the Russian
impact on this election.
And what's difficult about
sifting through all of this,
Judy, it's a little bit like
one of those games where
there's a picture made up
of a lot of different tiles.
You don't know what that picture
is until you flip over all
the tiles to get the picture.
And all we're getting the
one tile here and one tile
there and one tile over here.
So we have little pieces, but
we don't know what the big
picture is, and I don't know
that we're going ever going
to find out the big picture.
Then put on top of it all of
the politics around it, whether
it's the president saying
he doesn't know really if
the Russians interfered in
this, the push by Democrats
to really politicize
a lot of this, the Russian
-- including Hillary
Clinton, who says that
the Russian interference
cost her the election.
And now, of course, we have
James Comey, the FBI director,
coming to the Hill to talk more
about this Thursday.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And speaking
of which, Tam, the White House
did announce today, as we
reported, that the president
is not going to step in and
exert what we call executive
privilege to prevent James
Comey from doing that.
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: No, there was a question
of whether they could actually
assert that privilege and
whether they'd succeed.
But, yes, they're saying that
the president will not do that.
There was also a question of,
politically, whether it was
a good idea for the president
to try to interfere with Comey
testifying, because that would
just cause a lot of people
to say, well, what is he hiding?
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Amy,
there was a lot of speculation
about this, people saying, if
the president did that,
it would be explosive.
AMY WALTER: Absolutely.
Let me him go and testify,
and then respond to that.
If you block him from testifying
in the first place, the first
thing everybody is going
to say is, well, of course the
White House has something to
hide, that's why they don't
want him to testify.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, let's go
back, Tam, to this other story
we have been dealing with
for several hours today,
and that is the storm
of tweets that you just
heard John Yang reporting
on from the president today,
basically doubling down on his
original travel ban, saying, I
don't care what anybody calls
it, I want the travel ban, and
I don't like what the Justice
Department did and
so on and so on.
Does he help himself
with this, or is it --
is it there some risk?
TAMARA KEITH: Is that
a serious question?
(LAUGHTER)
TAMARA KEITH: Lawyers
would say, many lawyers
would say, stop talking.
Those lawyers include George
Conway, who is someone who
was up for potentially a job,
a high-level job in the Justice
Department, pulled out of
that job last week, happens
to be the husband of
Kellyanne Conway, said
in a series of tweets,
basically, the president's
tweets may make people
feel good, but they are
not helping his legal case.
Also, the lawyer who is
representing Hawaii in one of
these cases that has led to the
travel ban being blocked
essentially said, wow,
thank you, President Trump.
You're certainly helping us.
Didn't realize you were
going to be co-counsel.
(LAUGHTER)
AMY WALTER: And that's what
-- part of the reason that the
courts didn't enact the travel
ban in the first place was
based on statements that Trump
made on the campaign trail.
And so it is clear that his
own words have made this that
much more difficult, that the
actual text of the ban is as
much an issue as what he said
in his campaign about wanting
to ban Muslims, and now going
to Twitter and also making
the case against himself.
So he has made it that much
harder, if not - - to get
beyond just the text of this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, on top of
all this, at the same time,
Tam, Kellyanne Conway, who
we mentioned a moment ago
because her husband was tweeting
criticism of the president, was
telling reporters this morning
-- she was interviewed on
one of the morning television
shows -- just don't pay
attention to the tweets.
TAMARA KEITH: Right.
Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That you
should be focused on what the
president is getting done.
TAMARA KEITH: Yes, why focus
on the tweets, she says.
Well, because they are
statements of the president
of the United States.
And when the president
of the United States says
something, it matters.
Now, sometimes, his
statements come on letterhead
from the White House that
say this is an official
statement of the president
of the United States.
But the reality is that,
often, he goes on Twitter and
contradicts the things that are
on the official letterhead.
And, really, his tweets are this
unprecedented access to what
is in the mind of the president
of the United States.
It is unfiltered.
His spokeswoman was
asked today, are these
tweets being vetted yet?
Are lawyers vetting the tweets?
And she said, I don't think so.
So, actually, this is
what the president thinks.
AMY WALTER: And says.
And it shouldn't be any
different if he says
it on Twitter than if
he says it at a press
conference or if he
sent something on
official letterhead.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I should
say we at the "NewsHour" view
the tweets as another form
of statement from the
president, from the White House.
AMY WALTER: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There
are official statements.
There are executive orders,
any number of other ways.
They can give interviews.
They can make speeches.
(CROSSTALK)
AMY WALTER: And Twitter is
another one of those methods.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Twitter is...
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: ...
of communicating.
AMY WALTER: And everything
he says as a private -
- when he was a private
citizen is very different
than when he is president of the
president of the United States.
No matter what he says, in what
venue he says it, it carries
the weight of the president
of the United States.
It carries the weight of being
the leader of this country.
TAMARA KEITH: Though I think
that he considers the tweets
to be sort of a direct message
to his base, whereas the
more official statements are
seen for a wider audience.
But I think he sees those tweets
as going directly with the
base, going around the media.
But everybody else is
watching, including leaders
from around the world.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Everybody
is watching who focuses
on this administration.
Quickly, Tam, meantime,
the White House was trying
to today to regroup.
They said this is going
to be infrastructure week.
They had a little briefing for
the news media where they said,
we're going to be focusing
on a plan to pour a lot of
effort and money into rebuilding
the nation's infrastructure.
It's still not clear about
the details and the cost, but
they're trying to change the
subject.
TAMARA KEITH: Yes,
infrastructure week
is going really well.
It started with the president
tweeting at 6:00 in the morning
about something completely
unrelated to infrastructure.
But they did announce a
proposal on privatizing
air traffic control.
The president held a big, flashy
signing ceremony to sign a memo
being sent to Congress to say
that these are the
ideas that he supports.
That is not a bill signing.
That is a memo signing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, regrouping.
AMY WALTER: Well, and for
President Trump, this should
be his biggest, most powerful
statement.
He was elected to Congress as
a businessman, as a deal-maker,
as a builder of things, to
put together an infrastructure
bill that Democrats,
Republicans can agree
on, that he can promote.
This should be one of the
easiest things for him to do,
and yet, both by his own tweets
and by the fact that this
bill itself, as it stands, is
not going to get support from
Democrats.
(CROSSTALK)
TAMARA KEITH: Also, there is
no infrastructure bill, just
to be clear, at this point.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We
will keep watching.
I know you will too.
AMY WALTER: We will
keep watching, yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Amy,
Tam, thank you.
TAMARA KEITH: Thank you.